(lively music)
(keyboard clacking)
In this video, we're gonna go ahead
and download and instal IntelliJ IDEA for a Mac computer.
Now if you're running Windows or Linux,
you'd want to check out the videos
that we've put together for each operating system
in this section of the course
and that's because the process is slightly different
on those platforms.
But if you're on a Mac,
this is the video for you to watch.
So, you're gonna start out by going to www.jetbrains.com.
And JetBrains is the company
that actually create this IntelliJ IDEA product
which we're gonna be using in this course.
Once you get there, if you see IntelliJ IDEA showing
on the screen, you can click it there.
Alternatively come over here to IDEs
and select IntelliJ IDEA.
Either way will get you to the same page.
And next, we're gonna click on Download
'cause that's obviously what we wanna do,
download and then instal this tool.
There's two options here
and what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna start the download
for the Community Edition
and then while that's downloading,
we'll come back and have a chat about the two options
we've got here.
So, I'll just wait for that to start.
And I'll just put that or have that downloading
and I'll click on back
and I wanna go through the options here
because we've got an Ultimate edition
and a Community edition
and you saw me download the Community edition
and that's actually the free version of this tool.
If you download and use that version,
you'll never need to pay anything for it
but JetBrains, the makers of IntelliJ IDEA
also have an Ultimate edition
with a free trial which you can try it for 30 days
and the only reason you choose the Ultimate edition
it's got a lot more power
and it supports a lot more things.
You can see that both versions do have a lot of things
in common but some of the advanced things
can only work with the Ultimate product.
So, it's up to you.
The Community edition will certainly work fine.
If you wanna take advantage of a 30-day trial,
click on Download here
and the other thing to keep in mind
is I can actually extend that by another 90 days
to a total of 120 days
if you decide you wanna try out the Ultimate edition
and you'll see that there's a lecture
in this section of the course
which will show you how to go about getting
that special coupon
that will give you 120 days.
So, choose whichever version you wanna choose
and then download it.
You can see in my case that I've downloaded
the Community edition
and it's actually now finished
in the bottom left-hand corner,
so I'm gonna go and click on that to open it.
Depending on your browser, you may need to navigate
to the folder where it was downloaded
and then open that file to start the installation process.
And you can see that it's pretty simple.
Just need to drag this over into the Applications folders,
give it a moment to start,
you can see that it's installing there.
That's actually installed,
so I'm gonna close that down,
I'm also gonna close down the browser now
'cause we're finished with that.
And what I'm going to do then
is open that product, so I'm gonna go to my Finder,
open a new window, go into Applications
and actually I'm gonna close down this as well
because we've actually finished
with the installation process
and you go back to Applications.
So, we downloaded it and the most recent version
was the IntelliJ IDEA CE which is Community Edition,
so I'm gonna double click that
'cause that's the one I've just downloaded.
In any event, you'll click on the relevant one
that you downloaded which you'll probably only have the one
on your computer.
It then gets verified
and then we just need to go through
a few configuration options
before we're able to take advantage and use IntelliJ IDEA.
I'm gonna close down the Finder window for now.
Eventually you'll get this message.
Do we wanna open it?
We can see that it's been downloaded from www.jetbrains.com,
so we can click on OK.
Now, depending on your installation,
you may or may not see this,
this is an option now for you to select
whether you want to instal or import rather the settings
from another installation of IntelliJ IDEA.
Or most likely you haven't used this tool before,
in which case the default option here,
do not import settings will be correct
but if you do see another option there
and you do want to, you can select that
and that will basically import the settings
from another installation
so that you don't have to enter them all again
but in my case I'm just gonna click on
or have selected which is the default option,
do not import settings and click OK.
And then we get to a wizard process,
now we need to go through and just select a few things.
The first thing is the UI theme,
so we can choose whether we want the white background
or a dark background or a sort of a dark theme.
I'm gonna leave the white theme,
the white background selected,
but you'll choose whichever one appeals to you,
noting you can always change this down the bottom,
it says under Preferences, Appearance & Behaviour, Appearance
so you can go back and do that at a later time
if you wanna change it.
You click on Next.
You get this option before
and usually the option you wanna select
is this one on the left-hand side here.
I've never used IDEA
and that's just gonna set up the Mac OS X Mac key maps
which is probably correct for most people.
So, I'm gonna click on Next.
You've got an option here to create a launcher script.
This is if you ever wanted to use IntelliJ
from the command line.
Probably it's not something you do very often
but seeing as though we're going
through the installation process,
let's click that anyway
and if we wanna use that in the future, we can do that.
You click on Next.
You've now got a list here or presented
with various options for various extra plugins
that we can instal for IntelliJ IDEA.
The thing is you can come back and do these at any time,
so I'm not going to select any at this point
but if there's something there that appeals to you
and that you wanna instal,
this is the place where you can actually go ahead
and do that
and you can also disable some tools as well
that they have installed
but I would generally recommend
you just leave everything as is
noting that you can come back and change this later
if you do decide to.
And one other thing to keep in mind
is if you're running the,
or have selected the Ultimate edition,
there's probably gonna be more options here,
different plugins, so the screen might look
a little bit different
and that's because of the extra functionality
that the Ultimate edition gives you.
In my case I'm gonna click on next
without changing anything
and we've got a couple of tother options there
to download some other featured plugins.
You don't need them in this course,
so I'm just gonna click on Start Using IntelliJ IDEA.
It'll ask you for a password,
so just type in your password.
And that will now start IntelliJ IDEA.
At this point we've started IntelliJ
but we've got a couple of other configuration options
we need to do
and the first one is we need to define
the Java Development Kit
or configure that, we can click on that
or select that by clicking on Configure,
clicking on Project Defaults
and then choosing Project Structure.
Once we do that, we get this screen
and if you don't see Project SDK selected,
you might need to make sure
that actually down here you've clicked on Project
because if you clicked on another option
in the past or something, you may not see it
but clicking on Project will show that again.
And you can see at the moment
it's showing that Project SDK,
in fact there isn't an SDK.
So, what we need to do
is associate the Java Development Kit
that we've installed in a previous video
with IntelliJ so that IntelliJ can use that in programming.
So, to do that, we just click on New, we select JDK.
Generally speaking when we do that,
it will automatically find the Java Development Kit
that has been downloaded that we downloaded previously
and if you have a look there in the path,
you can see that there's the Java Development Kit
and that we downloaded in a previous video.
It downloaded and installed.
I didn't need to do anything.
In some Macs, you might find
that it won't automatically find that for some reason,
if that's the case, this takes you to the path there,
you can see on the screen there
that would be where you'd go.
Navigate to Library, Java, Java Virtual Machines
and you make sure the Java Development Kit was selected,
the JDK, making sure you haven't selected a J ari
which is also an option,
then you go to the Content, and then the Home folder.
Once you do that, that's all you need to do
and IntelliJ can do the rest.
But in my case, as you saw, it automatically found it,
so chances are good that it'll do the same
for you and your Mac.
Click on Open
and you can see now we have got an SDK configured
and if it's not selected for some reason,
make sure that it is selected there.
The other thing to do here
is to make sure that SDK Default is selected.
It is by default and that's version 8
as you can see that's selected there.
You don't need to do anything
because that's the correct option,
so once we've done that,
we can click on OK
and we've now configured our Java Development Kit.
Then there's just a few other settings
that I recommend you go ahead and configure
before we finish the video.
So, to Do that, click on Configure
and click on Preferences.
The next thing you wanna do is come down here to Editor,
expand that option and then come down her to General
and then expand that option as well.
Try Auto Import first, select that option,
you wanna go ahead and click on the checkbox
for add unambiguous imports on the fly
and optimise imports on the fly.
Select both of those
and that'll just make the coding a little bit easier
and you'll see that in action as we go through the course.
Click on OK, actually I'll click on Apply
because I need to go back and go to Appearance,
click on that.
The other thing you need to check
to make sure it's activated or is enabled
is show line numbers.
So, you can see in my case
that show line numbers is checked
and we wanna do that 'cause again,
that makes it a little bit easier
when you're programming to see which line number you're on.
So, that's selected, click on OK.
At this point we've now finished with the installation
and configuration of IntelliJ IDEA.
Let's move on to the next video.